user-guide/fixtures.md, before:

---
sidebar: auto
sidebarDepth: 0
---

# Fixtures

A fixture is a pre-defined, reusable test abstraction. The objects under test are specified at runtime, rather than hard-coded.

To get a better understanding of fixtures, imagine a regular test file, but the object (or objects) under test can be swapped so that the same standardized test implementation can be used against multiple objects.

A fixture is just a plain old Ruby object that includes the TestBench API. A fixture has access to the same API that any TestBench test would. By including the `TestBench::Fixture` module into a Ruby object, the object acquires all of the methods available to a test script, including `context`, `test`, `assert`, `refute`, `assert_raises`, `refute_raises`, and `comment`.

## Fixture API

### Callable Object

The only requirement places on a fixture's API is that it implements Ruby's _callable object_ protocol by implementing the `call` method, and that the signature of the method is parameterless.

### Fixture State and the Initializer

State is passed to a fixture object via the positional parameters of its initializer.

``` ruby
class SomeFixture
  include TestBench::Fixture

  def initialize(something, something_else)
    @something = something
    @something_else = something_else
  end

  def call
    # ...
  end
end
```

If the fixture class implements a method named `build`, that method will be used to construct an instance rather than the initializer, leaving the developer the freedom to either implement the `initialize` method or not, or implement it whatever is preferred.

## Implementing Fixtures

The TestBench API is just Ruby methods. There's no special syntax to invoke TestBench API methods, or any special rules or setup.

In the simplest case, a test can be implemented directly in the `call` method.

``` ruby
class SomeFixture
  include TestBench::Fixture

  attr_accessor :something
  attr_accessor :something_else

  def initialize(something, something_else)
    @something = something
    @something_else = something_else
  end

  def call
    context "Some Context" do
      context "Something" do
        included = something_else.include?(something)

        test "Included in Something Else" do
          assert(included)
        end
      end

      context "Something Else" do
        twice_as_long = something_else.length == something.length * 2

        test "Twice as long as something" do
          assert(twice_as_long)
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Using Fixtures

In addition to TestBench's core API for writing tests, the API also provides the `fixture` method for activating fixtures in a test script.

``` ruby
context "Other Context" do
  something = 'some value'
  something_else = something * 2

  fixture(SomeFixture, something, something_else)
end
```

The `fixture` method runs the test code in the fixture as if it's part of the currently running test, maintaining the continuity of the output and indenting.

```
Other Context
  Some Context
    Something
      Included in Something Else
    Something Else
      Twice as long as something
```

**API**

`fixture(fixture_class, *args, &block)`

**Parameters**

| Name | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| fixture_class | Fixture class to run | Class |
| args | Arguments to pass to the fixture class's initializer | Array |
| block | Additional test code that is executed within the fixture's context | Proc |

The `fixture` method instantiates the fixture class and invokes it's `call` method. The parameters sent to the `fixture` method are passed along to the fixture's initializer.

The `fixture` method also shares the running test script's output object with the fixture in order to preserve output continuity.

### Additional Block

When the generalization provided by a fixture is not enough, the fixture can be specialized for a particular circumstance by supplying an additional block of test code.

``` ruby
context "Other Context" do
  something = 'some value'
  something_else = 'some value' * 2

  fixture(SomeFixture, something, something_else) do |f|
    context "Something Else" do
      context "First Character" do
        first_character = f.something_else[0]
        last_character = f.something_else[-1]

        same = first_character == last_character

        test "Not the same as the last character" do
          refute(same)
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

```
Other Context
  Some Context
    Something
      Included in Something Else
    Something Else
      Twice as long as something
  Something Else
    First Character
      Not the same as the last character
```

## Exercising Fixtures

Because fixtures are just Ruby objects, they can be instantiated and exercised just like any other Ruby object.

``` ruby
something = 'some value'
something_else = 'some value'

some_fixture = SomeFixture.new(something, something_else)
some_fixture.test_session.output = TestBench::Output.build

some_fixture.()
```

```
Some Context
  Something
    Included in Something Else
  Something Else
    Twice as long as something
      test/automated/fixture.rb:28:in `block (3 levels) in call':
      Assertion failed (TestBench::Fixture::AssertionFailure)
```

## Testing Fixtures

If a fixture is sufficiently elaborate, it can even be tested like a plain old object.

``` ruby
context "SomeFixture" do
  something = 'some value'
  something_else = 'some value'

  some_fixture = SomeFixture.new(something, something_else)

  some_fixture.()

  context "Included in Something Else" do
    passed = some_fixture.test_session.test_passed?('Included in Something Else')

    test "Passed" do
      assert(passed)
    end
  end

  context "Twice as long as something" do
    failed = some_fixture.test_session.test_failed?('Twice as long as something')

    test "Failed" do
      assert(failed)
    end
  end
end
```

```
SomeFixture
  Included in Something Else
    Passed
  Twice as long as something
    Failed
```

## Distributing Fixtures with a Library

Libraries can provide a set of fixtures that users of the library can leverage to test code that uses the library.

A library that ships a set of fixtures doesn't have to take a dependency on the entirety of TestBench. The `TestBench::Fixture` namespace is its own self-contained package. That package is safe to be packaged with production code, whereas TestBench, being a test framework, should not be distributed with production code.

Commit message:

Fixture call method requirement is clarified

user-guide/fixtures.md, after:

---
sidebar: auto
sidebarDepth: 0
---

# Fixtures

A fixture is a pre-defined, reusable test abstraction. The objects under test are specified at runtime, rather than hard-coded.

To get a better understanding of fixtures, imagine a regular test file, but the object (or objects) under test can be swapped so that the same standardized test implementation can be used against multiple objects.

A fixture is just a plain old Ruby object that includes the TestBench API. A fixture has access to the same API that any TestBench test would. By including the `TestBench::Fixture` module into a Ruby object, the object acquires all of the methods available to a test script, including `context`, `test`, `assert`, `refute`, `assert_raises`, `refute_raises`, and `comment`.

## Fixture API

### Callable Object

The only requirement placed on a fixture's API is that it implements Ruby's _callable object_ protocol by implementing the `call` method, and that the signature of the method is parameterless.

Alternatively, if the `call` method is not implemented on a fixture, then a [block must be given](#additional-block). When a block is given, the fixture object doesn't have to implement the callable object protocol. If `call` is implemented and a block is given, the block has precedence.

### Fixture State and the Initializer

State is passed to a fixture object via the positional parameters of its initializer.

``` ruby
class SomeFixture
  include TestBench::Fixture

  def initialize(something, something_else)
    @something = something
    @something_else = something_else
  end

  def call
    # ...
  end
end
```

If the fixture class implements a method named `build`, that method will be used to construct an instance rather than the initializer, leaving the developer the freedom to either implement the `initialize` method or not, or implement it whatever is preferred.

## Implementing Fixtures

The TestBench API is just Ruby methods. There's no special syntax to invoke TestBench API methods, or any special rules or setup.

In the simplest case, a test can be implemented directly in the `call` method.

``` ruby
class SomeFixture
  include TestBench::Fixture

  attr_accessor :something
  attr_accessor :something_else

  def initialize(something, something_else)
    @something = something
    @something_else = something_else
  end

  def call
    context "Some Context" do
      context "Something" do
        included = something_else.include?(something)

        test "Included in Something Else" do
          assert(included)
        end
      end

      context "Something Else" do
        twice_as_long = something_else.length == something.length * 2

        test "Twice as long as something" do
          assert(twice_as_long)
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

## Using Fixtures

In addition to TestBench's core API for writing tests, the API also provides the `fixture` method for activating fixtures in a test script.

``` ruby
context "Other Context" do
  something = 'some value'
  something_else = something * 2

  fixture(SomeFixture, something, something_else)
end
```

The `fixture` method runs the test code in the fixture as if it's part of the currently running test, maintaining the continuity of the output and indenting.

```
Other Context
  Some Context
    Something
      Included in Something Else
    Something Else
      Twice as long as something
```

**API**

`fixture(fixture_class, *args, &block)`

**Parameters**

| Name | Description | Type |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| fixture_class | Fixture class to run | Class |
| args | Arguments to pass to the fixture class's initializer | Array |
| block | Additional test code that is executed within the fixture's context | Proc |

The `fixture` method instantiates the fixture class and invokes it's `call` method. The parameters sent to the `fixture` method are passed along to the fixture's initializer.

The `fixture` method also shares the running test script's output object with the fixture in order to preserve output continuity.

### Additional Block

When the generalization provided by a fixture is not enough, the fixture can be specialized for a particular circumstance by supplying an additional block of test code.

When a block is given, the fixture object doesn't have to implement the [callable object protocol](#callable-object).

``` ruby
context "Other Context" do
  something = 'some value'
  something_else = 'some value' * 2

  fixture(SomeFixture, something, something_else) do |f|
    context "Something Else" do
      context "First Character" do
        first_character = f.something_else[0]
        last_character = f.something_else[-1]

        same = first_character == last_character

        test "Not the same as the last character" do
          refute(same)
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

```
Other Context
  Some Context
    Something
      Included in Something Else
    Something Else
      Twice as long as something
  Something Else
    First Character
      Not the same as the last character
```

## Exercising Fixtures

Because fixtures are just Ruby objects, they can be instantiated and exercised just like any other Ruby object.

``` ruby
something = 'some value'
something_else = 'some value'

some_fixture = SomeFixture.new(something, something_else)
some_fixture.test_session.output = TestBench::Output.build

some_fixture.()
```

```
Some Context
  Something
    Included in Something Else
  Something Else
    Twice as long as something
      test/automated/fixture.rb:28:in `block (3 levels) in call':
      Assertion failed (TestBench::Fixture::AssertionFailure)
```

## Testing Fixtures

If a fixture is sufficiently elaborate, it can even be tested like a plain old object.

``` ruby
context "SomeFixture" do
  something = 'some value'
  something_else = 'some value'

  some_fixture = SomeFixture.new(something, something_else)

  some_fixture.()

  context "Included in Something Else" do
    passed = some_fixture.test_session.test_passed?('Included in Something Else')

    test "Passed" do
      assert(passed)
    end
  end

  context "Twice as long as something" do
    failed = some_fixture.test_session.test_failed?('Twice as long as something')

    test "Failed" do
      assert(failed)
    end
  end
end
```

```
SomeFixture
  Included in Something Else
    Passed
  Twice as long as something
    Failed
```

## Distributing Fixtures with a Library

Libraries can provide a set of fixtures that users of the library can leverage to test code that uses the library.

A library that ships a set of fixtures doesn't have to take a dependency on the entirety of TestBench. The `TestBench::Fixture` namespace is its own self-contained package. That package is safe to be packaged with production code, whereas TestBench, being a test framework, should not be distributed with production code.
